# frontcore

*_server side renderered front end prototyping_*

## Table of Contents

<a href="#what-is-frontcore">What is frontcore?</a>
<a href="#why-server-side-rendering">What is frontcore?</a>
<a href="#why-not-static-site-generators">What is frontcore?</a>

<h2 id="what-is-frontcore">What is frontcore?</h2>

frontcore is a front end development/prototyping tool with the goal of reducing
the cost of integration with back end systems during deployment. It seeks to
accomplish this by integrating the server side rendering workflow into the front
end development process. As a result, the artifacts generated by the front end
build can be directly integrated with server rendering capabilities of back end
systems.

<h2 id="why-server-side-rendering">Why Server Side Rendering (SSR)?</h2>

Modern Javascript frameworks (Angular, React, Vue) make developing complex user
interfaces easier than ever before. This improved developer experience is
accomplished by moving the entire page rendering process into Javascript.
However, pure Javascript applications do not lend themselves well to SEO and
therefore are not acceptable solutions for most traditional websites which want
their content indexed by search engines.

Enter server side rendering. As the name implies, a server side rendered app uses
the server to generate page markup and then sends the pre-rendered HTML to the
browser. This pre-rendering step makes content available to web crawlers and
therefore search engine indexable.

<h2 id="why-not-static-site-generators">Why not Static Site Generators?</h2>

Static site generators (like Gatsby for React) perform this pre-rendering step
during the build process. For small sites, static site generation is a simpler
solution than SSR and is an acceptable solution. However, for larger sites (with
100s or even 1000s) or pages, pre-building all of those pages takes too long and
can even crash the build process. In these cases, it is better to let the server
pre-render and deliver only the pages that are needed, as they are needed.
